---
id: 2746
title: Pleasure
date: 2014-11-08T04:09:11-05:00
author: Rahil
layout: post
guid: http://www.rahilpatel.com/blog/?p=2746
permalink: /pleasure
categories:
  - Psychology
  - Thoughts
---
A thought sometime soon after moving to Taiwan:

> I need to maintain one of he following to stay active: social life and excitement, caffeine, or exercise.

Of the primitive pleasures, there are: talking, exercise, food, and caffeine.

Starve one from these, and the person may do weird things.

> There was so much time in a day. What the fuck happened to it today? I need to consume more of the world around me. I was ignoring too much. If I ignore the world, I can always watch a film, but I failed to do that. I just went through the day, meaningless.
> 
> Difficult to live and create simultaneously.
> 
> I&#8217;m waking up without reason, creativity. I really miss that. I&#8217;m unable to balance life and work. It distracts me from my personal direction. My motivation.

Of the advanced pleasures, there is creativity.

> 10/9/13  
> I question the study of a language. I am not a social person. I often see time of being social as a waste. It&#8217;s life, it&#8217;s fun, I remember it, but my brain is off. I&#8217;d rather be social with people I share work with.

> The younger crowd in my class consume pop media, work at cafes and bars. I don&#8217;t want to be a part of that. I needed some social time because I&#8217;ve been traveling so much, but they don&#8217;t have to be long term friends. I need to create my own close friends. People with taste, intelligence, ambition. Life is great, but it&#8217;s not enough for me.

> 10/15/13  
> Class is not as motivating as art or work or life!

It seems a hierarchy exists. Creativity is more pleasurable than simply social activity. This harks the old thought of choosing New York for creativity or Taipei for simple pleasures.