---
id: 3786
title: Babel
date: 2014-12-15T03:56:21-05:00
author: Rahil
layout: post
guid: http://www.rahilpatel.com/blog/?p=3786
permalink: /babel
categories:
  - Film Reviews
  - Films
---
The film was great, but the winter blues got me down, so my brain isn&#8217;t firing nearly as much.

> Morocco

This country is near the top of my list to go to because it retains such a strong [street culture, and therefore high happiness index](http://www.rahilpatel.com/blog/happiness-and-public-spaces "Happiness and Public Spaces").

> Farm-life

Agricultural society?

> Innaritu understands multiple cultures and lifestyles, the similarities and differences in ethics. He probably traveled much in his life.

> Why not celebrate together? A problem with houses.

Never-mind, the maid actually took the kids to Mexico. Nice!

> Kid&#8217;s don&#8217;t learn from television.

> Tourist shot. It&#8217;s plausible. More likely to get in a car crash though, but that wouldn&#8217;t have blown up in American media.

Framing.

> Japanese deaf volleyball player.

So much to be learned from deaf people.

> This film is fucking amazing because of the constant switching between societies.

> Hah, chicken leg broken.

Reminds me of the time I created the belief that one must be able to kill what they eat.

> They had fun catching chickens though.

There&#8217;s a nice sensual pleasure in Mexico, one they were probably deprived of.

> Oof, such ethical conundrum. The older female indegenous-appearing person stopped pressuring the wound.

Or maybe it was done?

> The deaf is shunned from society. Yet wants to be a part of it; Societal norms disregards them.

It&#8217;s so rare that I encounter deaf people. Perhaps they are less willing to come out to the public, and stick to institutions and home.

> Societies are too distant to face emotions for(?), only real experience can give to feelings.

Perhaps this thought came when a television showing media appeared. [Media just can&#8217;t compare to reality in inciting action](http://www.rahilpatel.com/blog/experience-and-action "Experience and Action").

> An aside: The director travelled at ages 17 and 19 via a cargo ship to work across Europe and Asia.

> Only because an American died such value is given.

They even sent a helicopter!

> All to go for a marriage.

Traditional values make people do crazy things. Even now, I have a cousin who&#8217;s wedding is in India. The cost is at least the cost of displacing 20+ Indian-Americans via a round-trip flight across the world.

> Hah, the marriage in Mexico reminds of those in Southeast Asia and India.

They just seem odd.

> The scenes of the Mexican marriage and park in Japan are beautiful.

> Cops shoot without care for the villagers.

I didn&#8217;t quite understand why the cops were so angry. Do they care for Americans that much? Weren&#8217;t they Moroccan?

> The edge of civilization is near, especially as the world becomes more connected with transportation. The effects of societies clashing is inevitable.

It&#8217;s surprising how close (in proximity) these events are. The Mexican border is perhaps 12 hours away by car, or an hour flight. One could experience a completely different society in a matter of hours. As budget airlines increase, people do. The effects of this, I am unsure.