---
author: rahil627
comments: true
date: 2014-12-15 08:56:21+00:00
layout: post
link: http://rahilpatel.com/blog/babel/
slug: babel
title: Babel
wordpress_id: 3786
categories:
- Film Reviews
- Films
---

The film was great, but the winter blues got me down, so my brain isn't firing nearly as much.



<blockquote>Morocco</blockquote>


This country is near the top of my list to go to because it retains such a strong [street culture, and therefore high happiness index](http://www.rahilpatel.com/blog/happiness-and-public-spaces).



<blockquote>Farm-life</blockquote>


Agricultural society?



<blockquote>Innaritu understands multiple cultures and lifestyles, the similarities and differences in ethics. He probably traveled much in his life.</blockquote>





<blockquote>Why not celebrate together? A problem with houses.</blockquote>


Never-mind, the maid actually took the kids to Mexico. Nice!



<blockquote>Kid's don't learn from television.</blockquote>





<blockquote>Tourist shot. It's plausible. More likely to get in a car crash though, but that wouldn't have blown up in American media.</blockquote>


Framing.



<blockquote>Japanese deaf volleyball player.</blockquote>


So much to be learned from deaf people.



<blockquote>This film is fucking amazing because of the constant switching between societies.</blockquote>





<blockquote>Hah, chicken leg broken.</blockquote>


Reminds me of the time I created the belief that one must be able to kill what they eat.



<blockquote>They had fun catching chickens though.</blockquote>


There's a nice sensual pleasure in Mexico, one they were probably deprived of.



<blockquote>Oof, such ethical conundrum. The older female indegenous-appearing person stopped pressuring the wound.</blockquote>


Or maybe it was done?



<blockquote>The deaf is shunned from society. Yet wants to be a part of it; Societal norms disregards them.</blockquote>


It's so rare that I encounter deaf people. Perhaps they are less willing to come out to the public, and stick to institutions and home.



<blockquote>Societies are too distant to face emotions for(?), only real experience can give to feelings.</blockquote>


Perhaps this thought came when a television showing media appeared. [Media just can't compare to reality in inciting action](http://www.rahilpatel.com/blog/experience-and-action).



<blockquote>An aside: The director travelled at ages 17 and 19 via a cargo ship to work across Europe and Asia.</blockquote>





<blockquote>Only because an American died such value is given.</blockquote>


They even sent a helicopter!



<blockquote>All to go for a marriage.</blockquote>


Traditional values make people do crazy things. Even now, I have a cousin who's wedding is in India. The cost is at least the cost of displacing 20+ Indian-Americans via a round-trip flight across the world.



<blockquote>Hah, the marriage in Mexico reminds of those in Southeast Asia and India.</blockquote>


They just seem odd.



<blockquote>The scenes of the Mexican marriage and park in Japan are beautiful.</blockquote>





<blockquote>Cops shoot without care for the villagers.</blockquote>


I didn't quite understand why the cops were so angry. Do they care for Americans that much? Weren't they Moroccan?



<blockquote>The edge of civilization is near, especially as the world becomes more connected with transportation. The effects of societies clashing is inevitable.</blockquote>


It's surprising how close (in proximity) these events are. The Mexican border is perhaps 12 hours away by car, or an hour flight. One could experience a completely different society in a matter of hours. As budget airlines increase, people do. The effects of this, I am unsure.
